# Computational-Musicology
In this course I want to do research on the difference and similarities between 'old school hiphop' from the 90s and the modern day rap and hiphop from around 2015 to 2023. I'm interested in how the dynamics have changed and if modern day rap for example contains more energy and danceability and less acousticness or liveness compared to old school. Therefore my corpus will contain a merged group of tracks of both these periods of hiphop/rap. I will pick some modern day 'rapstars' and some very well known 'old school rappers'. The natural groups and comparison points will be artists and albums from these artists. I expect to see an increase in aspects like loudness because of the way music and hiphop beats get produced these days but I am very unsure how other factors like energy, happiness and danceability have changed between these two groups. Besides things like this I am interested in how it differs in general or maybe has similarities in how they both were popular in their own time. The strength of my corpus would be that I want to respectively check, with the help of popularity charts etcetera, which artists were the most popular in these genres in both the 90s and around 2018 to 2023 and use these as a reference point. Nevertheless this also brings a limitation because this would only consist of extremely well known artists and this maybe doesn't create the most realistic comparison because there are of course a lot of different artists of the genre hiphop in both these different periods. (homework week 6)

Homework week 7: I want to talk and think this week how I can make my used playlist on spotify/corpus selection more accurate. Now I have about 40 populair hiphop tracks from the 90s and 40 populair hiphop tracks from 2015 to 2023 and I think this is maybe problematic because there could be big variance between these tracks by the selection process which could maybe lead to inaccurate assumptions and results. I also saw that I accidently picked a track from the 90s (Slum Village - The Look Of Love 1997) which was released in 2011 according to Spotify (I picked a wrong, newly released compilation album I suppose) and want to fix this and my corpus as a whole also. 
As my first graph in GGplot I've made a scatterplot in which I've tried to visually represent the difference in valence between the selected tracks from the 90s and the modern hiphop/rap songs. I've added this as a png file to my repisotory 
